Okay, cleaning up after Docker is a very
important task. When I first started
working with Docker, I was working at a
client and I had a Red Hat image with
VPN into. They gave us a choice of
having Windows or Linux instances, and of
course, took Linux. I'd rather work with
Linux any day of the week, over Windows.
So with VPN into these
images and they didn't have a lot
of disk space allocated to them. So as I
started getting into Docker development,
I kept blowing up the disk on this
machine, like crazy. I found out
it it is pretty important to do
housekeeping, when you're doing
development with Docker, and going
further in this course, we're going to be
building images, and this is going to become
more and more important. Now if you have
a terabyte of disk space, you're probably
not going to run into this for a while. But
trust me, if you're on a smaller system,
with disk space constraints, you will run
into this pretty quick,
as you start doing development of Docker
because you are going to be building it -
images, containers and volumes.
All these files will start taking up a
significant amount of space on your
system. Over time, it really builds up.
So these commands here, I'm going to show
you some lessons learn from being out on
the field on the trenches of stumbling
through this because I didn't
know all this about at first when I
first got into Docker and how it could
can consume up space. At first, I learned
it will flow away the images, and then I
learned though you can clean up
containers, and then my disk filled up
again, it's like oh I've got all these
orphaned volumes, so I'm going to go over to
a slideshow now, and show you exactly the
commands that I use to keep my Docker
environment nice and neat and tidy. Okay,
in this one, we are going to talk about
Docker Housecleaning,
cleaning up after Docker. Now, what we
need to do in cleaning up after Docker is
it does leave behind a lot of files.
These files will continue to grow and
consume a lot of disk space.
Probably less of an issue on production
systems, where we aren't building
containers, restarting things all the
time, bringing down different images and
whatnot. A couple things that we
need to remember is that, Docker is going to
be leaving these files behind. Even
though it's very efficient, it can
consume a lot of space over time because
the containers after you start and stop.
When that container image is still there.
There is a volume associated with that
container.
I mean if you didn't mount something
there there's a volume associated that
that container, so that is left behind as
you bring down different images and
those are left behind and all of the
slices for those images that are kept
down the system. So the two culprits are
going to be containers and volumes, as
you start and stop containers and
volumes that this can really start
consuming a lot of space. So let's go and
take a look at and we have the
containers and I want to point out a couple of
commands here. You can't remove the
volumes or the containers while they're
running. Docker won't allow that. So if we
want to, like on a dev system, we wanted a
lot clean up everything. One of the first
things that we do is kill all the
Docker containers. So this is a Docker
command kill, and we're passing it in an
argument dollar sign paren docker ps
minus q and the minus q does a quiet
mode and what this is going to do is
pass in a list of container IDs to kill
command and Docker will kill everything
that is running. Then the next one would
be delete all the stopped containers, so if
we did docker rm, and then the same
syntax here and we are going to use
docker ps minus a and again minus q for
quiet, that will give us all the stopped
containers, and we'll pass that into the
remove command, and that's going to
remove all the containers. Now the next
thing I saw that we needed to look at
was images. A couple of commands for these
guys. If we want to remove a specific
Docker image, like the rm command but now
it's rmi so I remember it in my head.
Docker remove image so rmi will remove
an image name. Now if we brought down an
image and then we built another latest
image, that image would still be there,
but it would be untagged. And that this
is an important concept, especially when
we start building our own images. We'll
start off with the first image. We'll
build it and we'll tag it as latest, and
then if we run another build and we
build that image again, and tag it as
latest, that original first image would
become untagged and now this is would be
considered a dangling image because it
doesn't have a tag. But that image still
exists on the system. So in this case, to
remove those dangling images, now use
docker rmi again. And this time, we are
going to run a command inside docker
images -q for quiet and then -f for
filter and we're going to filter them on
dangling equals true and then this will
clean up all those dangling images. Again,
this is important once we start getting
into building images on our local
machine. Now the next one is to
delete all images. Let's say we just want
to clean everything up. If you start
developing a lot with Docker, trust me,
you're going to, at some point in time,
you just want to like clear all the
Docker stuff. So if we do docker rmi and
then inside the command we do docker
images -q, that inside command is
going to list all the Docker images in
quiet mode. - q is quiet mode. Pass
in those image IDs to the docker rmi
command and that's going to clear up
everything. Now the next one we need to
talk to about his volumes. Now cleaning
up volumes. Once a volume is alone, no
longer associated with a container, it is
considered dangling. Now to remove these
dangling volumes, we need to run the
command docker volume minus rm dollar
sign docker volume ls -f and dangling
equal true with the - q command. Now
one caveat here is if we've mounted
a local storage, they're using the - v command, those files will not be
removed. So this is all the local Docker
images. Remember I said that. When a
Docker container starts up, it will give
it a volume and image sliced volume
inside of Docker zone file system for
any local rights to that container.
If you do a volume mount that is
actually separate from that. But these
volumes do get left behind, as you create
and stop containers, this one that has
been me in the past was I forgot about
the volumes and that those will
definitely chew up some space after some
time. Now for further help, I've created a
Docker cheat sheet. I think I mentioned
this before in the course for Spring
Developers. If you just Google Docker
cheat sheet for Spring Developers, they'll
take you right to my website. I have
a series of commands. All these commands
are documented there. When I first
started with Docker, I couldn't
remember these commands off the top of
my head, I was new to it so I started
creating that that post, to keep those
around and it gives me an easy way to
find those. The set of commands is pretty
important and you might be looking at
this wondering why Docker does it this
way, and there's actually some pretty
important reasons why it does this.
Containers after they're stopped, they're
left there in place so that you can go in
and see the log files on it.
If Docker clean this up automatically,
that'd be no fun because it wouldn't see
the logs after running a container
images. Docker doesn't know if you're
going to be running that image again.
The same of volumes, you may need to
access the contents of those volume
files. So it's kind of a nature of how
Docker works, that most these files get
left behind, and it if you're running in
production, it's not going to be as much
as a problem if you're running in
development. Running in development,
you're pulling down a lot of different
diagram images, doing a lot of different
stuff with Docker, and you will fill
up a lot of disk, if you're doing a lot
of different things with Docker.